

.. _homeworks:

=============================================================
Homework and project
=============================================================


There will be 4 homework assignments during the quarter, requiring a
combination of analytical and programming work.
See :ref:`hwformat` below for information on the desired format.

There will also be an open-book midterm exam, and a course project (see
below).

Peer review of other students homework and other group projects will also be
a required component of the course (see below).


Schedule (tentative)
---------------------

* :ref:`homework1`: due Thursday, Jan. 15
* :ref:`homework2`: due Thursday, Jan. 29
* Homework 3:  due Thursday, Feb. 12
* Midterm: Friday, Feb. 20
* Homework 4:  due Thursday, Feb. 26
* Project presentations: Thursday and Friday, March 12-13
* Project paper due: Friday, March 13

Midterm
-------

There will be a midterm exam, tentatively scheduled for February 20.  The
exam will be open book, open notes, open computer.  The goal will be to
insure that you are proficient with some of the theory presented in the
course and with some aspects of computing.

Course Project
--------------

Students will also work on a project (individually or in groups of 2) and
will write a report on the project and give a brief talk in a symposium
tentatively scheduled for Saturday, March 14.

See :ref:`projects` for more about the class project and some suggested
topics.


.. _hwformat:

Homework format
---------------

Homework should be submitted by committing to your GitHub repository.
Details to appear.
The final version should be pushed by 11:00pm on the date due.

Written solutions should be submitted as pdf files (not Word, please).
Ideally these should be typeset using latex.  
(See :ref:`biblio_latex` for some sources).  
If necessary you can hand write
and scan, but typeset work is much easier to grade and is good practice.

You can write analytical solutiosn in an
IPython notebook if you wish to, which makes it
particularly easy to mix analysis with code illustrations.
If you do so, submit both the `.ipynb` file and also the `pdf` generated by
`nbconvert`.

For computer code,
please include suitable documentation to describe
what you've done and also explain it in your written solutions when appropriate.



.. _peer:

Peer Review
-----------

Following each homework, students will be asked to peer review
another student's submission.  You will not assign grades, but will be asked
to make constructive comments.  The comments will be turned in for credit,
and anonymized versions will be distributed along with the instructor's
comments and grades.

